US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
speaking live now from Bahrain let's
listen
in that's makes it particularly
important that we respond when we see
something like the aggression coming
from the houthis that continues to be uh
repeated directed at shipping in the uh
Red Sea uh there have been uh th
hundreds of attacks now since uh
November uh on shipping in the Red Sea
affecting um more than 40 countries tied
to to ships with uh from 40 different
countries uh and uh we had the biggest
attack uavs missiles just
yesterday um these attacks have been
aided and embedded by Iran with
technology equipment uh
intelligence information and they are
having a real life impact on people you
know we talk about Concepts like freedom
of navigation and the importance of
holding it and I know that can sound a
little bit abstract but it means
something very real in the lives of
people what's happened because of these
houthi attacks against commercial
shipping is that thousands of ships have
had to divert uh take longer routes pay
more for insurance and that gets
translated into higher prices for people
for everything from uh fuel to medicine
to food it's disrupting Supply chains
and so it's having a real impact on
people around the world um in uh their
daily
lives we know all about the hostages in
Gaza well the houthis have taken more
than 25 hostages from the ships that
they've seized since um uh since this
fall so all of this has required us this
this challenge this threat to the
interest of countries around the world
has required us to respond we put
together operation Prosperity Guardian
uh with um more than 20 countries
including uh Bahrain uh to do everything
we can to preserve freedom of navigation
freedom of shipping in the Red Sea and
in fact the United States and the United
Kingdom two participants in operation
Prosperity Guardian responded
effectively to the attacks just
yesterday uh we also had um some 20
countries come together to make clear
that uh if these attacks continue as
they did yesterday there will be
consequences uh again this represents a
clear threat to the interests of
countries around the world and it's
important that the International
Community come together and respond to
them uh we also talked here in brain of
course about uh the the conflict in Gaza
and we uh discussed uh the efforts that
are underway uh to try to make sure that
civilians are better protected that we
get humanitarian assistance to people
who need it um and at the same time uh
make sure that Israel can succeed in uh
ensuring to the best of its ability that
October 7th never happened uh again but
we also focused on the day after uh this
conflict in Gaza and the important work
that needs to be done to help Gaza get
back on its feet uh as well as efforts
that countries around the region are
clearly prepared to make based on the
trip this week to bring countries
together to integrate the region
and to do so in a way that provides for
the security uh of Israel and also
provides a pathway for Palestinians to a
state of their own uh earlier today I
had an opportunity to meet with
president abas and rala uh and we talked
about those efforts uh we talked as well
about uh the importance of uh reforming
uh the Palestinian Authority Palestinian
governance so that it can effectively
take responsibility for Gaza that so
that uh Gaza and the West Bank can be uh
reunited uh under Palestinian leadership
um it's very clear to me for president
abas that he's prepared to um move
forward and engage in all of these
efforts uh indeed uh as we speak I think
president abas is with President CCE of
Egypt uh with King Abdullah of Jordan
talking about these Ray issues and I can
say that um after this U this week in
the region it's clear that countries
around the region
are seized with the need first of all to
prevent the conflict from spreading but
also to design a better path forward for
the region as a whole uh and
particularly for Israelis and
Palestinians alike all of this work is
going to continue in the days and weeks
ahead uh there's a real sense of urgency
I'm feeling that from countries around
the region uh and we the United States
will continue to be very actively
engaged and trying to move things
forward with that happy to take some
questions yes Mr secretary you talk
about responding you talk about
consequences given that the houthis have
claimed credit for this attack they said
it was targeted towards an American
warship have we reached the point where
talk of consequences have to turn into
action look I'm not going to uh
Telegraph or preview anything that uh
that might happen all I can tell you is
again we've made clear we've been clear
with uh more than 20 other countries
that if this continues as it did
yesterday there will be consequences and
I'm going to leave it at that and you
also talked about the Iranians being
behind this that they've been supporting
the houis uh do the consequences extend
to the Iranians as well again all I can
tell you is that as we made clear and
many other countries made clear there'll
be consequences for the hou's actions uh
We've also uh repeatedly tried to make
clear to
Iran uh as other countries have as well
that the support that they're providing
to the houthis uh including for these
actions needs to stop um it's not in
their interest to see the conflict
escalated uh and we're not the only ones
who sent that message to
Iran uh Mr secretary it's quite the trip
again um I wanted to come back with your
to your meeting with h president abas
you said that he he engaged himself to
to to Palestinian reform could you did
he really commit to reforming the
Palestinian Authority uh did you give us
some specifics on that and more
generally speaking um uh given if you
called for today a tangible steps on
both sides and specifically Israel also
uh looking forward to the creation of a
Palestinian State given that Israel is
opposed to the very idea of a palestinia
state how is that going to play out so
uh Leon in terms of uh reform palan
Authority look I don't want to speak for
president abas but I think what I take
away from this meeting is that he is
committed to that and uh is uh very much
prepared to move forward and he's going
to I know having conversations with
other leaders in the region um and it's
I think very important for the uh
Palestinian people uh that they have uh
governance that can be effective that
can help deliver results for them and I
believe that president abas is committed
to doing that when it comes to the
broader path forward as I said even in
this incredibly dark time what's so
powerful in all our conversations
throughout the uh throughout this trip
is that countries do see a away forward
a way forward through greater
integration that actually provides real
security for Israel and guarantees for
that security and a pathway to a
Palestinian State now to get there
leaders have to make hard decisions hard
choices we can't do that for them but I
think the more we can show what the
future could look like and how it would
clearly benefit people throughout the
region but notably Israelis and
Palestinians I think as that picture
becomes sharper and it's and and as it's
clearer that countries throughout the
region are prepared to themselves make
commitments give guarantees give
assurances in ways that they weren't in
the past then I think that uh the choice
becomes sharper and hard decisions may
be a little bit easier to make but a lot
of hard work remains No One Believes any
of this will be easy and No One Believes
any of this can happen overnight but
there is a clear and better vision for
what the future can bring there are
countries that are committed to try to
help deliver it the United States is one
of them thank you all right guys clear
back clear back back